COMMENTATOR:
'You join us here at The Barracks
'for this fifth-round FA Cup tie
between minnows Cowley Town
'and local rivals Oxford Wanderers.
'The build-up around Cowley's home
ground is already quite something,
'not at all the sort of crowd
they're used to seeing
'at this end of the league.'
CROWD SINGING AND CHANTING
IN THE DISTANCE
WHISTLE BLOWS
MUSIC: 'Won't Get Fooled Again'
by The Who
Hello, Alf. Who's your pal?
# And the men who spurred us on
# Sit in judgement of all wrong
# They decide
# And the shotgun sings the song
# I'll tip my hat
To the new constitution
# Take a bow
For the new revolution... #
COMMENTATOR:
'One minute of injury time remaining
'and Oxford Wanderers are trailing
the minnows Cowley Town
'by a goal to nil
in this fifth-round cup tie.'
# Just like yesterday
# Then I'll get on my knees
And pray... #
CROWD CHANT AND CHEER
# We don't get fooled again
# The change, it had to come... #
WHISTLE BLOWS
COMMENTATOR: 'A free kick
just outside the penalty area.'
# We were liberated from the fold
That's all
# And the world
Looks just the same... #
'Swift is lining up
to take the kick.'
# Cos the banners they are flown
# In the next war
# I'll tip my hat
To the new constitution
# Take a bow
For the new revolution... #
CHEERING
'Swift has snatched if not victory
'from the jaws of defeat,
then at least something that'll...'
# Just like yesterday
# Then I'll down on my knees
And pray
# We don't get fooled again... #
This is a message
from the Provisional IRA.
If Jack Swift plays in the game
on Wednesday against Cowley,
he'll be shot.
RECORD BUFFERS
ON THE TURNTABLE
RADIO REPORTER: 'The nationwide
postal strike enters its fourth week
'with no sign of movement
on either side.
'D-Day,
and we turn our old pennies...'
MUSIC PLAYS
ON THE RADIO
Traffic, I expect.
I'm sure he'll be here soon.
# Surely it's gonna be time
To change the money round
# Cos we've got decimalisation
# Decimalisation
# There's a hundred new pennies now
# For every pound. #
You have to understand, Master,
that funding a department
with money from a company
with blood on its hands is...
..with blood on its hands
can no longer be tolerated.
Be wary of judging the past
by modern morals, Mr Sarson,
lest your own enlightened virtues
one day fall from fashion.
It's not about the past, Master.
Oh! Good morning, Miss Widdowson.
Morning, Miss Newell.
You're in early.
But it's all right,
I've got the kettle on.
EXPLOSION BOOMS
FIRE ALARM RINGS,
PEOPLE SCREAM
FIRE ALARM RINGS
TELEPHONE RINGS
RINGING CONTINUES
Morse.
What's the, er...?
One dead and one injured.
The deceased
is a Miss Margaret Widdowson.
22, from Headington.
Junior secretary
in the Master's office.
She wouldn't have known anything
about it. Small mercies.
And the, er, survivor?
A Miss Newell.
Also secretarial.
And where was the bomb?
In the post, it looks like.
A parcel, I should imagine,
by the size of the blast.
Forensics will identify the package,
hopefully.
What's left of it.
But I expect it will be
a very lengthy process.
Cause of death should speak
for itself, in this instance,
But shall we say two o'clock?
Thanks, Doctor.
Oh, hello, Sergeant.
Very nice to have you back.
Doctor.
So, what do we think?
Angry Brigade?
Word out of Barnet
is they charged a bloke Saturday
with bombing
the Employment Minister's place.
The Brigade would suggest that
more than one person's involved,
wouldn't you think?
Didn't they put something
in one of their communiques?
"We attack properties, not people."
Wouldn't be their style,
I shouldn't have thought.
Well, whoever sent it
and whatever it came in,
we can assume
it was meant for the Master.
THURSDAY:
You've had no personal
or professional disagreements
with colleagues?
I had nothing to warrant such
a terrible, wicked...
That poor, poor girl.
I noticed some placards concerning
the Buchanan affair in the quad.
Feelings are still running high,
I take it.
Just undergraduate misbehaviour.
What's this?
Tobias Buchanan, sir.
He made a fortune in arms
during the American Civil War
and later invested
a science chair here.
Some say as a way to expiate
his sins.
So, the issue is?
The company that bears his name
also manufactures napalm
and a defoliant called Agent Orange,
both of which have been used,
to lethal effect, in Vietnam.
The more militantly minded
might see it as just cause.
A bomb, though! What are you
thinking, that it's Angry Brigade?
We're keeping an open mind.
But to be on the safe side,
we'd like to put
a uniformed constable
on the gate as a deterrent.
Well, if you think so.
Just for the time being.
Until we get to the bottom
of things.
Post delivered during
a postal strike.
It's unlikely, don't you think?
A lot of private firms
have taken up the slack.
Well, I'll get on to anyone local,
see if they've made deliveries
today.
Strange can do that.
I'm quite capable.
I'm not saying you're not.
It's just there's something else
Mr Bright wants you to look at.
Do you know much about football?
Yes, sir.
Understood.
Just a moment, sir.
Mr Bright said to let you know
he's running late at Division.
But, er... Miss Frazil's here.
He, er, put her in your office.
Miss Frazil.
Chief Inspector. Morse.
Bad moment?
It never rains.
Well, anything I can do
to help the boys in blue.
But I've got to tell you,
sitting on a scoop this big
goes against every instinct.
As you can see, we've kept it
out of the paper for now.
But if the threat is on the level,
and God forbid they make good on it,
then it's gonna be all over the
front page, let alone the back.
What's this?
There was an anonymous phone call
to the Oxford Mail
on Saturday evening, was it?
Man's voice. Irish.
Said, "This is a message
from the Provisional IRA.
"If Jack Swift plays in the game
on Wednesday against Cowley,
"he'll be shot."
Old or young, from the voice?
Somewhere between 18 and 80.
Ulster accent, like Paisley.
Have you found out
where the call was made?
It was a public phone
in the foyer of the Plaza Hotel.
Well, that could just be a crank,
then, couldn't it?
Someone who doesn't want Swift
playing against, er...
Cowley Town, cup tie replay.
The Plaza Hotel's a stone's throw
from Cowley's ground.
It could've been someone
on the way back from the match.
There was an issue when he first
joined the club, wasn't there?
Hate mail, death threats.
Well, we certainly got letters
saying people like Swift
shouldn't be playing
for an English club.
People like Swift?
Why, don't Irish footballers...
play for English sides? Sorry,
I don't know much about the game.
There are many Northern Irish
players in the English league.
But as one correspondent put it,
"None with the touch
of the tar brush".
Ah...
It's a race issue, then.
When he first started, maybe.
But Swift's long since
proved himself to the fans.
I mean, he won them promotion
from the Second Division
more or less single-handed.
Could there be any connection
with the threat against Swift
and this bomb at Lonsdale?
The Irish,
on this side of the water?
I don't think they'd make a play
as bold as that, Miss Frazil.
Well, what's threatening the life
of a leading footballer?
Seems pretty bold to me,
Chief Inspector.
Well, that's assuming that
the threat is genuine.
Aren't you?
Well, I think that's rather
the conundrum, don't you?
Jack Swift is to have
round-the-clock local protection
until the match is over.
Division's order.
Football's hardly my area
of expertise, sir.
I've very little interest
in the game.
Which is exactly
why you've been chosen.
The last thing we need
is someone with stars in their eyes
who's going to be overwhelmed
by the whole soccer razzamatazz.
Better by far to have someone
in place
who's going to keep their eye
on the ball.
As it were.
You're all right, are you?
Well, it's a case of having to be,
isn't it?
I just think my time
will be better spent on the bomb,
rather than playing wet nurse
to some overpaid football star.
"Our is not to reason why."
And look how that turned out.
If it's a real threat...
But that's the point, isn't it?
"If".
I just don't want to be on
a dead-end assignment
when I could be helping you find
which lunatic blew up
my old college.
But Division knows best.
WHISTLE TOOTS
Right, simple passing drill, boys.
Give and go.
Don't let Jack do all the work,
come on!
Hey, work harder than that.
Last one.
WHISTLE TOOTS
'Ah, come on.'
We're not taking any notice of that,
are we?
It's just some wee buck eejit
trying to put me off my game,
is all.
Well, I'm sure there's nothing
to it, Mr Swift.
But I am under strict instructions
to make sure that it stays that way.
How's that? Kind of like
a bodyguard, do you mean?
Well, something like that.
Either myself
or one of my colleagues
will be with you at all times.
Do I have a say?
No.
You don't. It's come down
from Mr Fenner himself.
He's not taking a gamble with
his star striker, is he, Jack?
Well, I'm just about to see him.
What's that?
I've a fitting for some clobber
for this fashion thing tonight.
I'll talk to him, Dan.
I'm not afraid of these people.
Nobody's thinking that.
Not for a minute. We just...
want to be sensible, that's all.
Mm.
Is there no way that Mr Swift
can just miss the match?
HE SCOFFS
It's a cup tie.
Do you know what that means
for the club financially?
Besides, if I don't play this game,
what about the next?
When does it stop?
Your son's posted there, isn't he?
Northern Ireland?
Yes, sir. Yes, he is.
Getting on all right?
Hard to tell with, Sam, sir.
He writes home to his mother
once a week. But, er...
with the postal strike.
And Morse... how's he these days?
Morse is Morse, sir.
You know more than anyone
what last year took out of a soul.
He walks a step slower maybe.
Lost some of his bounce, you mean?
A bit less full of himself.
A bit less cocksure.
That's not always a bad thing.
A bit of uncertainty,
a bit of doubt makes a man
more careful in his work.
More thorough.
Perhaps time does that to all of us,
sooner or later.
There are some blows
from which one never quite recovers.
Not fully, at least.
One thing's for sure.
He's no more the kid that got off
the coach from Carshall New Town.
So, you've not noticed anything
out of the ordinary?
Nobody following you.
Outside of the press?
No.
I mean, nothing like that.
Like what, then?
Look, it's daft.
Last week, Thursday or Friday maybe,
I was in a taxi coming through town,
and I thought I saw someone I knew.
From home.
Who?
A fella I used to play football with
when we were kids.
George Sellars.
He married our neighbour's girl.
Only, I was caught in the one-way,
right,
and I had the driver go around,
but by the time we'd got back,
there was no sign.
But do you think it was him?
Aye, he had the look of George,
sure.
But I can't think he'd be in town
and not call.
It's probably my mistake.
But you said
anything out of the ordinary.
I just had a chat with the Forensics
boys.
They think the bomb
was inside a plain cardboard box
wrapped in brown paper and string
on a timer.
No distinguishing features.
Well, that narrows it down a bit.
I've spoken to all the major private
services delivering mail in Oxford.
From Friday until today
none of them had any parcels like
that for the college.
The bomber must have dropped it off
himself, then.
Anything from intelligence
on the usual two-bob radicals?
This is Oxford.
Roll a ball down Carfax,
you'll hit half-a-dozen agitators.
Ban the bomb. Make love, not war.
AmnOx. Vegetarians.
They might make a noise,
but I can't see any of that lot
blowing people up.
Back to the Angry Brigade, then?
Else it's something personal.
Come on, get your coat.
HE TURNS THE ENGINE OFF
Cecily, get Solly to cut a new
pattern for a different model.
I just found out Suki's
in the pudding club.
Marta, darling, you make sure
you put a bit more into it tonight.
This isn't any old schmutter,
this is the Robert Fenner Spring
Collection. That's it!
Jackie!
Take five, girls. Take five.
Jackie, darling, all right?
Who's your friend?
Police.
Oh. Er, Robert Fenner.
Fenner Fashions.
Couturier to the stars
and them that'd like to be.
I also happen to be
Chairman of Oxford Wanderers.
So I understand.
Mr Swift tells me he is to attend
some, er... fashion show tonight.
Tonight's the launch
of Fenner Fashions.
Very important Jackie's here.
More important he doesn't get
killed, don't you think?
Now, I'll need a list
of all that are attending.
Nobody's going to do anything to him
in public, are they?
My good lady wife.
Nothing's going to happen to him
with you here, is it?
Tell you what, Cecily,
why don't you take Jackie
to try his outfit for tonight on?
Any alterations,
Solly can take care of. Of course.
If you'd like to come this way,
Jackie.
Let's take a look at that famous
inside leg, shall we?
Aye, but I can't be
too long about it.
Ray wants me back at the ground
for a photoshoot.
I had a doctor's appointment
at 4:30 on Friday,
so I came in a little earlier
this morning to make up the time.
Maggie was already in.
She had the kettle on.
Morning, Miss Newell.
You're in early.
I noticed she had a parcel
wrapped in brown paper.
Did you see who it was addressed to?
I noticed it was for the Master.
Only, they'd written Stanfield,
rather than Stamfield.
THURSDAY: 'Stanfield? With an N?'
'Yes. GW Stanfield.'
I turned away to do something
and there was a bright light.
That's all I remember.
Was everything well between you?
Oh, yes.
We got on like a house on fire.
How about Professor Stamfield,
with his colleagues and so forth?
No fall-outs there or...?
He had words with Maggie
about her timekeeping.
Sometimes she'd only put her nose
around the door
at a quarter or 20 past nine.
It seems silly now...
..the things we fret over.
Something like this happens and...
..you wonder why you worry.
Miss Widdowson has a sister,
a Mrs Frida O'Rourke.
I wonder if she knows something.
See if you can run her down,
find out what's what.
And meet me back at the ranch.
Sir.
Despite playing for opposing teams,
both Jack Swift
and John-Paul Martinelli
are delighted to be associated
with the launch of...
the Striker from Grenville Cycles.
CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS
So, any questions?
Yes, I've a question
for Mr Martinelli.
How does it feel to be described
as "the next Jack Swift"?
Oh, there's only one Jack Swift.
He's been my hero
since I was at school.
And now you're up against him
on Wednesday.
Any predictions?
Wanderers will have the home
advantage here at The Field.
But Cowley's ready to give it
all we've got.
You know, that's the magic
of a cup tie.
Anything can happen.
All right, folks.
The boys have got to get back
to their training, so...
Well, thank you very much.
Come on, then, lads.
You drew the short straw, then.
Urgh...
So, what's the plan with Swift?
Well, keep him alive, I suppose.
If the threat's genuine.
Are you all right?
You look a bit peaky.
Oh, I'm fine.
Sure?
Yeah.
Do you know him, Swift?
Yeah, I've interviewed him once
or twice. He seems nice enough.
Which isn't something you can say
for Ray Jubba, their agent.
Their agent?
Yeah, Swift
and John-Paul Martinelli.
Ray Jubba manages them both.
But they play for different sides.
Not for much longer.
Word is, Martinelli's looking
to transfer from Cowley,
and Wanderers are interested.
"The next Jack Swift"?
But the Wanderers have already got
a Jack Swift.
Why do they need another?
"And slowly answered Arthur
from the barge,
"'The old order changeth,
yielding place to new.'"
Every god has his day, Morse.
I'd better go.
Don't you think you should tell him?
I thought he might take it better
coming from you.
You're the manager, Dan.
I'm just his agent.
It's what they pay you for.
Just let him get the game
tomorrow night out of the way.
And you're keeping in touch
with your family back home now.
Cos... that's important
when you're over here.
Oh, sure.
Duke Ward said to send his best,
by the way.
When did you see Duke?
I didn't.
I spoke to him.
You know, on the phone.
OK.
Well...
if you've any problems,
you just let me know.
All right?
Sure thing.
I'll see you tonight.
I mean, tomorrow at the game.
Here, you couldn't get me
that Cheryl's number, could you?
Fancy her, do you?
I can introduce you.
But some things
a man's got to do himself, 'ey?
It's OK. This is Jim.
He's a policeman.
Aye-aye, Joanie.
Back on the horse, then?
Dad said you had a time of it.
Oh, did he?
What's the story here?
Just something I got involved with
through Welfare.
I'm looking for Frida O'Rourke.
Uniform thought
she might've come here.
Is she one of yours?
What's it about?
A family matter.
Her sister's been killed.
Maggie?
You know her?
Yeah, I know her.
She visited Frida
a couple of times.
What happened, an accident, or...?
Not exactly.
Oi!
Hope you're looking after my boy.
He means a lot to me.
I'd hate to see anything happen.
You manage them both, I understand.
Their commercial interests,
endorsements, personal appearances,
that sort of thing.
Is it lucrative?
Put it this way...
..when Jack lent his name
to a range of signature boots,
they sold more than half a million
in the first season alone.
59 and 11 a pair for the boys.
149 shillings for men's.
Decent screw in any money,
old or new.
Joan said she'd been by to see you.
Last week.
She just came by to drop
some bits off for the kiddies.
When I left their dad,
I had to go quick,
and their toys got left behind.
How was she?
Did she seem all right?
Nothing bothering her? No troubles?
I was going to be maid of honour
and she...
I'm sorry.
It's OK. You're all right.
Poor Maggie!
I don't suppose you can get me out
of this thing tonight with Fenner,
can you?
Sorry, Jackie, no can do.
It's, you know, all set up
and we've got the papers there.
Sure, Ray. Sure.
Right, can you, er, just look after
him? I've got to make a phone call.
He's all right, really.
He's got my best interests at heart.
Fashion shows?
Photoshoots? Endorsements?
It's a wonder you get time
to play any football at all.
Who's that?
No idea.
He's not ground staff.
Press maybe?
If her old man shows up,
you know where I am.
And if anything ever comes to her
her sister might've said.
Of course.
Well, then.
Mind how you go.
Oh, here...
I've got a do coming up.
A ladies' do, in the spring.
A charity evening.
Dinner dance.
I was wondering...
..I don't suppose it'd be up
your street?
SHE CHUCKLES
Somebody let you down?
No. No, no, no, nothing like that.
You're the first person I've asked.
I'll believe you.
No, honest.
We're expected to bring someone.
"James Strange and guest."
What about your girlfriend?
I'm between at the minute.
You'd be doing me a favour.
And it's all for a good cause.
What time?
Seven for drinks and canopies.
Sit down's at eight. Pick you up
and drop you back, of course.
Nice, private hire car.
Home by midnight.
SHE LAUGHS
Before I turn into a pumpkin?
HE LAUGHS
All right, go on, then.
Really?
Oh, right.
I'll phone you through with
the date. It's not until May, but...
Ta.
ROCK MUSIC PLAYS
MAN OVER PA: 'Everyone thought
the mini-skirt
'really couldn't go any higher.
'But maybe it could.
'Because it seems the thigh's
the limit for lovely Louise,
'as she models a pair of the hottest
of hot pants in striped satin.
'These are guaranteed
to turn the most everyday behind
'into a delectable derriere.
Would you keep an eye on him
for two minutes
while I go see where my support is?
Yeah, on him.
ROCK MUSIC CONTINUES
HE PUNCHES A NUMBER
PHONE LINE RINGS
MAN WITH IRISH ACCENT:
I've got everything in place.
Don't worry.
I'll get him at the end of the show.
Well, I've a list of guests
from the hotel,
but no names stick out as Irish.
THURSDAY:
'Did they say Swift's name?'
No, "I'll get him at the end
of the show."
Who else could they be
talking about?
'They don't even know
if he's gonna play in the match.
'Sure you haven't got
your wires crossed?'
Saturday's warning call came
from the Plaza Hotel, didn't it?
So, they're here. I know they are.
'All right, stand to.'
APPLAUSE
Thank you! Thank you!
Thank you for attending
Fenner Fashion's Spring Collection,
sponsored by
Tressell's Building Contractors.
Now, if I could just ask our style
ambassador, Jack Swift,
Mr Goldenboots himself,
up on to the stage for a few photos.
Come on, Jackie, don't be shy.
IRISH ACCENT: Here we go.
APPLAUSE
That's it, ladies.
Come on, get a slice.
That's right.
Straight down there.
There we go.
That's right.
Now!
FENNER: Thank you.
Hello. How are you?
Jack, sorry to interrupt
such a great show,
but we have another show
for you as well.
Because tonight, Jack Swift,
Oxford Wanderers
and Northern Ireland
international football striker,
this is your life!
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE
THIS IS YOUR LIFE THEME MUSIC
PLAYS
APPLAUSE
THIS IS YOUR LIFE THEME MUSIC
PLAYS
So, Jack, this is your life.
Eamonn Andrews! Well,
I don't really watch television.
But you must have heard of him!
Well...
No harm done.
Better safe than sorry.
Though, I expect you'll get it
from uniform
when you get back to the nick.
Aye-aye.
What's the latest
on the bombing at Lonsdale?
Outside of the Angry Brigade,
we're coming up short
on whether anybody has much
against Stamfield or the college.
Well, what about the victim?
Blameless.
She has a sister whose husband
knocks her about a bit.
But other than that,
the family seems decent.
Her fiance's broken-hearted over it.
'..has a special message
for you now.'
Hello, Jack.
Sarah.
I remember when
you were practising your football
and you looked up and saw me
and gave me that cheeky grin.
But even with all the good luck
you've had, you're still the same...
And her colleague?
Miss Newell didn't have much to say.
Stamfield had had a bit of a go
at the girl over her timekeeping.
But otherwise, all was hunky-dory.
So, have a wonderful night
with your family and friends.
And I hope to see you soon.
And she'll be seeing you sooner
than you both thought.
You last saw her eight years ago
when you were her husband's
best man.
But she's here tonight.
Sarah Coyle then.
Now, Sarah Sellars!
APPLAUSE
Yes, as Sarah said,
you were never that keen
on school work.
And as our next witness
will testify,
your eagerness to play football
often got you into trouble.
MAN: It was only a kick-about
after school.
But when he got home,
Jack was really in hot water.
Yes, you've not seen him
for a while, your school pal
and fellow footballing hopeful
from Londonderry,
you were best man at his wedding,
George Sellars!
So, tell us, George, what sort of
trouble did Jack used to get in?
Well, down the rec,
we didn't have a proper goal,
so we'd use our jumpers
to mark the posts, like.
This one game, he gets his jumper
absolutely wrecked.
He knew he'd catch it off his mam,
so he borrowed mine.
Did the deception work, Mrs Swift?
No, Eamonn, it didn't!
LAUGHTER
It wasn't Jackie's name tag that was
sewn into the collar of his sweater,
it was George's, so I knew
they'd been out and up to no good.
I said to him, "You'll get a clatter
off your daddy when he gets home!"
Rest his soul.
Thank you, George Sellars!
APPLAUSE
And before long,
your name reached the ears
of someone who was to change
the course of your life.
A docker friend of your late father
who, in his spare time,
acted as part-time coach
and talent scout
for football clubs here in England.
Duke Ward.
Yes.
That's right, it's the man who
spotted all that young potential,
a legendary football scout in
Northern Ireland, Marmaduke Ward!
APPLAUSE
Good to see you, Jackie.
Duke, tell me, what was your
reaction when you first saw Jack?
Well, Eamonn, to tell you the truth,
it was terrible.
Five feet, four,
and less meat on him than a whippet.
But I knew,
the moment I saw this fella,
that he could be something
very, very special
if he put the hard work in
and had somebody
to take him in hand.
We got him up to the mark,
and then I had no hesitation
in recommending him
to the Wanderers.
And I think you'll agree,
he hasn't done too bad so far.
Indeed, he hasn't.
Thank you, Duke Ward.
APPLAUSE
Now, to close tonight,
we have someone else
who's here to pay tribute to you.
A young man to whom
you were a schoolboy hero,
and who may himself
be facing the kind of adulation
you've gotten used to.
That's right, Eamonn.
But there's only one Jack Swift.
Yes, that's right.
It's the young striker
who's being hailed as
"the next Jack Swift".
Cowley Town centre-forward
and Northern Ireland international,
John-Paul Martinelli!
APPLAUSE
I saw him this morning
and he never let on.
So, John-Paul, what is it
you'd like to say to Jack?
Jack, you've been a hero,
not just to me,
but to thousands
of other schoolboys.
And I know everyone back home
and here in the UK
is just so proud of you,
and what you've achieved
in your career.
Well, hopefully, it's not over yet!
LAUGHTER
Indeed not.
But for now, at least, Jack Swift,
this is your life.
THEME MUSIC,
APPLAUSE
CHAMPAGNE CORK POPS
My playing days
are mostly behind me.
Oh, look, here he is.
It's Duke.
The unluckiest man in showbusiness.
Now, what was it you made
for discovering Jack?
15 quid finder's fee, wasn't it?
On top of the £2.10 a week retainer,
of course. No.
No, you should come and work for me.
Well, for some of us,
it's not about the money.
But then, I wouldn't expect a man
like you
to know anything about that.
What man like me?
A parasite.
Where were you on the freezing,
cold winter mornings
I had him out training?
Nowhere.
That's where you were.
And yet,
you've bled Jack near enough dry.
And now you've got your claws
into John-Paul.
So, you're all set to ruin him, too.
You're a grasper.
You make me sick to my stomach.
Hm...
All that stamina.
I think that when you come
and play for the Wanderers
that we're going to be
very good friends.
Oh, it's you.
Be a darling and go and fetch me
a little drinkie.
I'm a detective sergeant
at Thames Valley, Mrs Fenner.
I'm not a wine waiter.
I'm sure your husband
can freshen your glass.
Er, vodka martini, wasn't it,
Mrs Fenner?
Cecily. Please.
No mistaking you for Cupid,
is there?
Sweetheart...
You might have mentioned this.
Oh, well, we were all sworn
to secrecy, weren't we?
But you knew it was gonna happen
when there was a threat
against his life.
Er, what can I say?
I don't know what this
threat business is about
any more than you do.
I'm grateful you're looking out
for him.
But by this time tomorrow,
it'll all be over.
Well, no,
the threat was if he played.
He hasn't played yet.
ROBERT CLEARS HIS THROAT
Mr Lofthouse...
The Doncaster Dynamo.
I saw you play against Millwall
in, er, '54, was it? A cup tie.
I used to take my boy Sam there
when he was smaller.
Before we moved to Oxford,
of course.
Come on, let's split.
But what about your family?
It's...
It's your party.
They're not here for me.
Right, OK.
Hey, Jack, can I get you a drink?
Not right at the minute, Georgie.
Are you sure?
Cos I know Sarah'd love to catch up.
She must've just nipped out
to powder her nose.
She'll be back in a minute,
I'm sure.
I can't have a late night, George.
I've got a match tomorrow.
Are you staying on for it?
Yeah, of course.
We're all put up at the Plaza.
Your mum and sisters and everyone.
Great.
Great, we'll do something after,
then. OK?
Home!
WIN: You're late, Dad!
Work went on.
You missed Sam on the telephone.
I gave him your best.
All right over there, is it...
..with the locals?
Behaving themselves?
He didn't say.
I asked if he was looking
after himself. He said he was.
I'll put the kettle on.
Nothing for me this late.
Fair dos. Here...
you'll never guess
who I met tonight.
Who? Someone we know?
Eamonn Andrews.
Eamonn Andrews?
Fancy!
What's he like?
Very nice.
But not as tall as he looks
on the telly.
Sorry to drag you away.
I just had to get out.
You know, get away.
Sometimes, it takes me like that.
I get tired of it.
Of what?
Being Jack Swift.
What, the adulation, women, money?
My commiserations!
Aye.
It looks great from the outside.
But everyone wants something.
A signed photo.
A cut of your wages.
To be your friend.
To take them to bed so they can run
to the papers about it.
And what do you want?
The love of a good woman.
I had one, too.
And I let her go.
It was put to me I had to choose.
It was her...
..or success at the football.
There's not a day goes by...
HE CHUCKLES
And now they want to kill me for it.
Have you got a girl?
Er, no. No, not at the moment.
I could get some company over.
Make a call.
Well, erm, I mean, I'm on duty.
And, er...
And you've got a big game tomorrow.
You should probably get some rest.
To those about to die.
Well, hopefully not!
HE CHUCKLES
No, no, I'll, er...
I'll just stick to the crossword.
Yeah.
Get your clothes on and get out,
you little bitch!
How dare you! I'll kill you!
You said it was over!
You walked out! You left!
I thought you'd come after me.
Instead, I spend three weeks
bored out of my
mind at the George V.
DOORBELL CHIMES
Which you're paying for!
I'm paying for?
And now I come back
to find the place
filled with your stupid,
bloody tarts!
Don't walk away from me!
Yes?
Morse. I'm your relief.
Bill Shaw, Special Branch.
You'd better get home, get some kip.
You must be beat.
MORSE GROANS
Is, er...?
Is that his piece, is it,
the blondie one?
Yeah, apparently.
Nice work if you can get it.
And if anyone can get it, he can.
You won't have seen the paper.
It's all over.
If there was no threat to him
before, a headline like that
will drag every lunatic
out of the woodwork.
And take your bloody rubbish
with you!
Let the girl get her knickers on.
Jesus...
Sorry, love.
First time for everything, hey?
Detective Sergeant Bill Shaw,
Special Branch.
He'll be looking after you
this afternoon.
I'll be back this evening.
"The love of a good woman..."
When did she arrive?
First thing.
I did get an early night,
like you said, but...
Well...
breakfast of champions.
STAMFIELD: I have already addressed
the concerns
of John Sarson with him directly.
And as far as the college
is concerned...
..no further action need be taken.
My apologies.
I'm afraid, if I don't follow
my train of thought to its terminus,
I find it difficult to pick up
the thread.
What can I do for you?
We've spoken to Miss Newell
at the hospital yesterday.
She's recovering, I trust?
Seems to be.
She says you and Miss Widdowson
had words about her timekeeping.
I had to take her to task.
But it wasn't about her timekeeping.
Rather, her poor
and haphazard filing.
To be honest, her spelling
was not all one might wish.
But, really, that was nothing.
Not nothing to the girl.
She was in tears, apparently.
I perfectly accept I can be
a little brusque.
But, truly, I'm not in the habit
of reducing my staff to tears.
Whatever upset her that afternoon...
..it wasn't me.
STRANGE: Aye-aye, matey.
What's the latest?
We had another go at the Master.
And another word with his colleagues
to see if anyone might want
to blow him to kingdom come.
Not an enemy in the world,
apparently.
The Master of an Oxford college
without an enemy?
That would be a miracle.
And what about the bomb?
Regular cardboard box.
Wrapped in brown paper.
Tied with string.
Handwritten address.
Well, what's left of it.
Meant for Stamfield.
Looks to have been a time bomb,
according to the Forensics boys.
Dynamite wired up to an alarm clock.
Simple, but effective.
And is that consistent with
the Angry Brigade's other devices?
I've put a request in to the Yard
for furthers and betters,
but things are moving fast
since the Barnet arrest on Saturday
and they're playing their cards
close.
What do you make to that?
The bomb lads couldn't say.
Most likely it happened
in the explosion.
Residue traces of wax,
clay and some sort of colourant.
You're cutting it fine, aren't you?
What time's kick-off?
Oh, not till 7:30, but I'm relieving
the Branch man at 6:00.
Right.
Well, see you there, then.
SPECTATORS CHEER AND CHANT
Oh, there you are!
Where the bloody hell have you been?
Oh, sorry, we got caught
in the crowd. Yeah?
Never mind the Micks
taking a crack at him.
I'll give him the full treatment
if he's late
for the team talk again.
Ball in the back of the net,
isn't it, boss? Same as last week.
I'll be grand from here.
Morse, I hear you, er...
enjoyed a night with the stars.
This Is Your Life, wasn't it?
Oh...!
DCI Thursday said he's very nice.
Eamonn Andrews.
Though less tall
than he appears on the television.
Oh, well, I couldn't say, sir.
Well, your charge should be
in safe hands.
Division have permitted
an additional 200 officers,
besides those who normally cover
such a game.
COMMENTATOR: 'A very warm welcome
to you
'on this chilly February evening.
'If you're just joining us,
we're here at The Field,
'Oxford Wanderers' home ground,
'for this fifth-round cup tie reply
against neighbours Cowley Town.
'It promises to be a thriller.'
'With a strike by Jack Swift,
'Oxford Wanderers
came from a goal behind.'
Ah, good evening.
'Can he work his particular brand
of magic again tonight?
'Cowley Town, despite the presence
'of the fabulous young striker
John-Paul Martinelli,
'are very much the underdogs.'
WHISTLE BLOWS
Come on, ref!
'Swift's tackle was not as clean
as it might have been.'
SPECTATORS SHOUT AND CHANT
IN DISTANCE
'And we're deep into injury time
in this second half.
'According to my watch, there is
less than one minute left to play.
FADING: 'Swift steps up to take
'the most important free kick
of his career.
'This must surely be the last kick
of the match.'
SPECTATORS ROAR
Yes!
WHISTLE BLOWS
'And Oxford Wanderers are through
to the sixth round of the FA Cup.
'And some supporters
are on the pitch now.
'We are witnessing scenes here...'
Bright to all units.
Protect the target.
All eyes on Swift.
SPECTATORS CHANT AND CHEER
Have you seen Swift?
Dressing room, I think.
We need him out of there.
Get him out of there!
You're sure he got off the pitch?
He was ahead of me.
He'll be in the bath by now
if you want to scrub his back.
Look, I'll keep an eye on him
and bring him up to the clubroom
after, yeah?
All right.
Well done, lads!
The club moved to The Field
here at Potter's Lane in 1897.
It'd been church land
up until the Reformation.
Then, after that,
one of the colleges here
got ahold of it
and they leased it back to the town
as somewhere to bury their paupers.
So, from Potter's Field
to The Field, Potter's Lane.
I told you,
we had nothing to worry about.
I thought he'd have been here
by now.
Oh, they'll be having a few drinks,
a few laughs.
Getting warm in the bath.
Just young men
enjoying a bit of male camaraderie.
Taking bets as to which one
of these lovely, young ladies
is going to be a notch
on their bedpost by morning.
I'm guessing you weren't
the sporty type.
More of a bookworm. Am I right?
Are you in need of a refill there,
Graham?
This is my very dear friend
Mr Tressell.
This is Jackie's bodyguard, Morse.
Oh, you sponsored the fashion show
last night.
Sorry, Robert.
Erm, Graham, may I introduce you
to our Lady Mayoress?
Of course.
The warp and weft of civic life.
Commerce, too, I should think.
An evening at the football
as guest of the club chairman,
it must be an atmosphere
convivial for business.
Oh, well, what can I tell you?
It's good to be king.
Are you looking for Jackie, Mr Ward?
I'd leave him be a wee while.
It's not a good time,
I don't reckon.
Come on, Jack'll see us in the bar.
Where's Jack? I thought you said
you were going to bring him up.
I thought he'd come ahead.
No.
WOMAN SOBS LOUDLY
What is it?
He's...
Oh, my God!
Why weren't you watching him?
Oh...
Dead less than two hours.
I don't want to jump the gun
ahead of the post-mortem,
but death would appear to be
by drowning.
However, there is also a sizeable
wound to the back of cranium.
Could it have been accidental,
Doctor?
He's slipped, fallen,
hit his head perhaps?
It's possible.
But more likely the blow
knocked him unconscious
and he pitched forward
into the water.
A blow from what?
I recovered that from the bath.
Forensics haven't had a go at it
yet,
but it's the right size and weight
to fit the bill.
Number 10.
That's Swift's jersey, isn't it?
His girlfriend thought it was Swift,
sir.
Easy mistake to make, I suppose,
if you're face-down in the water.
Then, whoever did this,
and presumably we advance from
a position of suspecting foul play,
must have made the same error.
Hell of a thing to get wrong.
Well, a room full of steam.
If they came upon him from behind,
one could see how such a mistake
might be made.
The threat was that Swift
would be shot, wasn't it, sir?
Uniform searched everyone
coming into the ground
for concealed weapons.
Perhaps he had to improvise
with whatever was to hand.
Of all things, what was Martinelli
doing wearing another man's jersey?
It's not unknown for players
to swap shirts, sir,
as a souvenir of their encounter.
A mark of respect, sort of thing.
A fan, perhaps,
angry about the result.
According to uniform
and the ground staff,
none of the punters
managed to get down here.
The tunnel gate was locked
once all the players and officials
were safely off the pitch.
Then whoever did for him
was already inside the stadium.
What about his team-mates,
where are they?
The manager and most of the rest
have gone their own way.
Those that stuck around
for the booze-up
are still in the directors' box.
Easy for anyone to slip out
for five minutes.
And Swift,
what does he say about all this?
We haven't managed
to speak to him yet, sir.
I'd have thought he'd be first on
your list.
He doesn't appear
to be in the building, sir.
So, we have one dead footballer...
and one whose life has been
threatened now missing!
What do you think, Thursday?
Could Swift have done this?
He had a pretty nasty set-to
with Martinelli on the pitch.
If they swapped shirts, though, sir,
it suggests any differences
have been forgotten.
Very well,
I'll make my report to Division.
You can brief me on any developments
in the morning.
Carry on.
Make a start with statements
and particulars
from all interested parties, Jim.
Set aside any without an alibi
since the end of the match.
Sir.
When Jack didn't come back with
the rest of the boys to the party,
I came down here to look for him.
And you didn't see anyone else
down there,
didn't pass anyone on the stairs?
No.
I just saw him lying there
in the water and thought...
You thought that it was Jack.
SHE SOBS
If somebody wanted
to kill Martinelli,
there's plenty of other places
to do it.
Why here? Why now?
Well, perhaps it wasn't planned.
Maybe it was a spur of the moment.
Martinelli was wearing
Jack Swift's jersey, yes.
But only someone
who'd never seen Jack before
could mistake the one for the other.
Even from behind?
Well, I think,
if I were an assassin,
I'd want to be pretty sure
of my target. Wouldn't you?
I just can't believe it.
That lovely, young boy.
I was only talking to him
after Jack's This Is Your Life.
You've been here in this clubroom
all evening, have you?
Yes. So has Robert. Haven't you?
What's this?
You haven't left the clubroom
or the box tonight.
Well, I did have to wash my hands.
But I bumped into Ray, Mr Jubba,
in the gents.
He was attending to his hair. We got
talking. Made our way back here.
So you've been with somebody
all evening.
That's right. And even if I hadn't
been, I'm in the rag trade.
I'm not given to going round
murdering young footballers.
Especially ones I'm about to sign.
I'd just come down to tell Jackie
well done on the win, you know.
But he was having a bit of a row
with his man Jubba, so...
I just went back to the do.
George Sellars will tell you.
He came back up with me.
You saw Jack Swift?
Well, he had his back to me,
but I recognised his shirt,
you know.
That wasn't Jack.
That was John-Paul Martinelli.
What are you saying?
Is it John-Paul something's happened
to and not Jack?
Oh, God, no!
Say that's not true.
I don't believe you.
All that talent.
All that skill.
He could've been
ten times the player Jack is.
What a waste!
I came down to say well done
to Jackie.
Only, I could see he was having
a set-to
with the bloke that handles
his business.
So, me and Duke
just came back up again.
Except what you're saying now...
it wasn't Jack?
No, that's right.
So, you came straight back up here
after?
Aye. Well, Duke...
Er, Mr Ward stopped off at the gents
for a Jimmy.
I had Jack's mum and that to see to,
so I just left him to it.
It was you, you bastard!
What did you do to him?
That wee boy!
What do you mean, what have I done?
I haven't done anything.
I saw you with him!
I thought it was Jackie you were
talking to. But it was John-Paul.
Would he not go along
with your wee scheme, is that it?
All right now, Duke, that's enough.
What scheme would that be?
Well, he knows!
They're all in on it.
I'll kill you, you rotten...!
SHOUTING
Get him out! Get him out!
I'll bloody kill you!!
All right, I'm sorry,
I just saw red.
All right, what was that all about?
John-Paul phoned me up
before the match.
He wanted to ask my advice.
About what?
That Jubba, his agent,
or whatever the hell he is...
..told him that if a chance came up
to score tonight,
he was to stick it over the top
or put it wide.
He should throw the match?
If he wanted to come
to the Wanderers, that is.
There's some sort of
betting syndicate behind it.
Absolute tripe.
Duke Ward, he's a bitter,
washed-up, old has-been.
The boys he discovered, Jack,
John-Paul, rest his soul,
made small fortunes,
living the high life,
and he's cycling round Ulster
in all weathers
still panning for gold.
The other morning,
after the photoshoot,
I overheard you and Ray Jubba
discussing telling someone something
after the match.
Who was it?
What were you gonna tell them?
That? It...
Well, it's got no bearing on what
might have happened to John-Paul.
It can't have.
We'll be the judge of that.
We were talking about...
putting Jack out on loan
to Fulchester. That was all.
Look, there...
There's no shame in it.
He's had a good run.
12 years.
He's just... not what he was.
Which of us is, Mr Lofthouse?
I suppose the day that the next
man's just that half a yard faster
comes to all of us sooner or later.
I suppose, for Swift,
Martinelli was that man.
Nobody can outrun time.
Not even Jack Swift.
Do you think he could've done it?
SWIFT: Morse! Here he is.
Who's this?
This is Detective Chief Inspector
Thursday.
Mr Swift.
So, what happened to you?
I couldn't face it.
Come on, don't be mad.
Have a drink.
We can't protect you
if you just disappear, Mr Swift.
That's done with, isn't it?
We played the match.
Nothing happened.
Well, you might have told
Miss Eriksson you were leaving.
Sure, you know what she's like.
I couldn't.
Is she upset?
Where did you go?
I came back here.
Alone?
Of course, alone.
That looked like a nasty set-to
with John-Paul Martinelli.
The cheeky wee sh...
HE CHUCKLES
That's just the game, you know.
I shook his hand when the whistle
went and we swapped shirts.
Then the fans started pouring onto
the pitch and we just legged it.
Did you see him when you got off?
No.
I looked for him, just to make sure
he was all right, like.
Make sure the fans hadn't got
to him, missing that free kick.
Why?
He's dead.
He was found earlier this evening.
in the home team changing room...
wearing your shirt.
Jesus...
Oh, my God.
They didn't think that he was me,
did they?
What happened, is he shot?
We can't be sure
it was a case of mistaken identity.
But we do believe
that foul play was involved.
Your friend Mr Ward seemed to think
he'd got caught up
in some kind of racket.
How do you mean?
Fixing the game.
He got it into his head
your agent was involved.
No, man.
That's just Duke. You don't...
You don't want to put anything
into what he says.
That's just his way.
FRONT DOOR CLOSES
What the hell are you playing at?
I've been going out of my mind!
There was no need.
I'm perfectly fine.
Mr Swift...
Come on...
Will you be all right minding
the shop till the relief gets here?
Right-ho.
FRONT DOOR CLOSES
DOORBELL CHIMES
You had some excitement last night,
didn't you?
Word is, whoever they sent after him
got the wrong man.
Well, that presumes
it was who they sent after him.
If you ask me, I think the whole
thing's a bloody wild-goose chase.
Perhaps. The coffee's on.
I think, if I hated someone enough
to kill them,
I'd know how to spell their name.
Don't you?
Someone smart playing the fool?
Smart enough to know that Stamfield
wouldn't open his own post,
certainly.
There was a Valentine's card.
At her bedsit.
From her fiance, I took it.
Noel Baxter.
No, in the wreckage of her office.
It's possible a girl could have
two unknown admirers.
True.
But it'd be handy to know
who he was,
this other man, don't you think?
Further to your letter the 3rd inst,
as mentioned
in my previous correspondence,
the college's position
on entertaining...
You still do The Pools?
Yeah.
I've been at the old eight from ten
for 35 years
and never won so much
as a thruppenny bit.
Why do you still do it?
I'm an optimist.
I used to do it with Sam
when he was small, you know.
We'd study the league results
in the paper, who'd won, who'd lost
and who was due for a draw.
I used to take him down Potter's
Lane when we first came to Oxford.
The Field, you know,
the Wanderers' ground,
watch the home game
from the terraces.
Did you ever...?
No.
It'll be useful to know who
Miss Widdowson's other admirer was,
don't you think?
Well, we're going to be tied up
with Martinelli.
And if you're gonna be fit for
keeping an eye on Swift all night,
if I was you, I'd get some kip.
Oh, I'll sleep when I'm dead.
Did you give your fiancee
a Valentine's card?
I was working in Hastings
over the weekend, and...
what with the post being
what it is,
I dropped it round her flat Monday
afternoon on my lunch break.
Dropped it round her flat, yeah?
How did she seem,
the last time you saw her?
Excited.
She'd just come into some money,
or was about to.
A great aunt was very ill,
and Maggie said she'd always been
her favourite, so...
So she had expectations?
Enough for a deposit on a flat
for us, she thought.
Did she?
Yeah.
It was a relief,
as her bedsit had been burgled
the week before last.
Not that there was much to take.
She reported it, presumably?
To the police?
I told her to, but...
she couldn't see the point.
STAMFIELD:
A special service to commemorate
the loss of Miss Widdowson
will be held on the second Sunday
after Septuagesima...
and all the academic faculty
will be expected to attend.
Thank you for waiting.
No problem.
You were here on Monday?
That's right.
Is there news?
I'm afraid not.
I'm just following a few avenues
of inquiry.
I wonder, did Miss Widdowson
ever talk to you
about her personal life?
To me?
Mm-hm.
No. Not particularly,
I don't recall.
But you knew she was engaged,
presumably?
Miss Newell may have mentioned it.
I wonder, did she have any admirers
here at college?
If there were, it's not something
she ever vouchsafed to me.
Mm.
I understand,
in the general scheme of things,
she wouldn't ordinarily have been
in the office
at the time of the explosion.
There isn't an hour goes by
I don't reproach myself, believe me.
One can't conduct business
with others
as if they might be about to die
at any moment, but...
God knows how many times
these past few days
I've wished I'd never given
Miss Widdowson a ticking off.
HE RATTLES A LOCKED DRAWER
CABINET DOOR CREAKS OPEN
KNOCKING,
DOOR OPENS
Forensics came back with a set
of dabs on the champagne bottle.
It's a match for one of the sets
we took last night.
Not leaving us, Mr Sellars?
No. Just seeing Jack's family
to the station.
Fair enough.
We're gonna need a further statement
from you about last night.
Marmaduke Ward?
I'm arresting you on suspicion
of the murder
of John-Paul Martinelli.
Mr Sarson?
Thank you.
She was typing up a paper for you?
My thesis.
Mm.
There was a Valentine's card
recovered from the office.
One-four-three.
She liked to do the crossword
on her way into work...
on the 33.
One-four-three.
I love you.
Did she know how you felt about her?
No.
Were you aware
she was engaged to be married?
I'd seen her engagement ring,
of course.
But...
a fella can hope.
When did you leave the card?
Before it got light on Monday.
And how did you get into college?
In through here,
the fellows' garden.
There's a gate that gives on
to the lane.
It's kept shut overnight,
but you can snick the lock
if you have the knack.
It was already open when I got here.
As a matter of fact,
I almost got caught.
MORSE: It was the Master?
I didn't see his face,
but the lights were on in his rooms
and he was coming out of the office.
So, I assumed he was just in
early to work.
And when you left
the Valentine's card,
did you notice a brown paper package
on Maggie's desk?
I'm sorry, I...
I was so rattled
by almost running into old Stammers,
my heart was in my mouth.
I just dropped the card off and ran.
Right.
I've stood on the sidelines
of football pitches in all weathers.
This playing field, that youth club.
Nights so freezing cold
I couldn't feel my hands or feet
cycling back home.
All for the game.
HE SCOFFS
All those boys whose early promise
never came to anything.
The ones who lacked the nerve.
The ones who would get some girl
in the family way...
and then grind all the hopes
that you had for them into the dirt.
Year in, year out.
You wonder what the hell
you've done with your life.
And then, one day...
you see a boy...
..with talent
so out of the ordinary...
..that it could only have come
from the Almighty.
Jack Swift.
You do what you can
to take them under your wing.
You know...
train them up.
And then watch them throw it
all away on trivial things.
Fast living.
Women. Cars.
Frivolities.
You were afraid history would repeat
itself with Martinelli.
I found that boy.
I gave him the world.
I tried to warn him about Ray Jubba.
But...
..he just turned away from me,
like I was some... beggarman.
Is that when you hit him?
We've got your fingerprints
on the champagne bottle.
I took the bottle off him.
He was about to open it.
I said to him,
"Is this what you want?
"Is this all it means to you?"
I took the bottle off him,
but I set it down on the bench
by the door on my way out.
Harm a hair on that wee boy's head?
I'd sooner have cut my own throat.
HE TURNS THE ENGINE OFF
Morse.
Miss Thursday.
I'm, er...
I'm looking for a Mrs O'Rourke.
Maggie's sister.
Jim came by. Strange. Erm...
She's taken her little girl to
the park, but she'll be back soon.
If you want to wait.
Do you want a drink?
Bit early for me.
And to be honest,
I'd sooner you didn't...
if you're gonna talk to the kids.
It's just most of them
have experience of...
men who reek of booze.
Well... waste not, want not.
Thanks.
You never used to be so censorious.
Well, you never used to put it away
in the middle of the afternoon.
"Put it away in the middle
of the afternoon"? Come on.
What will be next?
"I'm going back to mother"?
I feel like I missed something.
No.
Are you sure?
Well, if you did,
then it was nothing much.
The mess you mentioned
when you wrote,
did you manage to put it right,
or...?
Oh, yes, that all...
That all ended as it should.
Morse...
What is this place?
Some kind of halfway house?
I don't know it
from the council list.
It's not council, just...
somewhere they can get away to.
If they need help.
Somewhere they can be safe.
You're saving the world.
SHE CHUCKLES
One woman at a time.
What's she like, Mrs O'Rourke?
Jim didn't say?
Well, I think Detective Sergeant
Strange has many qualities,
but I wouldn't rank sensitivity
paramount amongst them.
Oh, I don't know. In my experience,
he can be quite thoughtful
when the occasion demands it.
In your experience?
You want to try living with him.
I heard he ended up in hospital.
Dad said you saved him.
No.
No, you shouldn't believe everything
that you hear.
And poor Mr Bright.
Yeah, it was a bad year.
How was, erm...?
Stevenage.
Mm.
I thought it might be a new start.
But it turns out...
children can be just as miserable
and neglected there
as they can in Oxford.
And with Sam away,
I didn't like to leave Mum.
So...
..I came back.
Hm.
Did Mrs O'Rourke ever mention
a great aunt
of whom she had expectations?
TOY RATTLES
Not to me.
I really think she should be here
if you're gonna go through
her things.
I'm not going through her things.
I'm just looking.
What was it Miss Widdowson brought
for the children?
Just a box of toys
and the doll's house.
Why?
Well, I think she thought...
someone intended her harm.
Her bedsit was broken into
last week.
She was burgled?
No, that's not what I said.
I think someone
was looking for something.
Only, they didn't find it because...
..she's hidden it somewhere safe.
THURSDAY: Professor Stamfield...
Can we have a word?
Yes, of course.
You'll have to excuse me.
We're still in a state
of some disarray after...
..after the tragedy.
Still managing to keep up
with your correspondence, though.
I should think that thing's
a godsend, isn't it?
Oh, yes. I don't know
what I ever did without it.
I'm partial to a gadget, myself.
These, er, cassette tapes
they have now, is it?
That's right.
My sergeant played me a cassette
tape he came by this afternoon.
I'd be glad of your opinion of it.
Morse...
STAMFIELD ON TAPE: 'It has come to
my attention that undergraduates
'have been using the fellows'
garden entrance after curfew.'
Not only is this...
Mr Fenner, Master.
Robert! Come in, do.
Thank you, Maggie.
Sherry, or something stronger?
Er, Scotch, if we're celebrating.
I say, this is smart.
I must get me one of these.
Testing, testing...
I wouldn't be without it.
Of course, it's no substitute for a
pert little secretary on one's lap.
Absolutely!
So...
The Field.
The Field that Fenner mentions
is the Wanderers' home turf.
Now, the team is so-called because,
originally, they shared a ground
with any football or rugby club
who'd have them.
But in 1897,
they were granted a 75-year lease
on a field at Potter's Lane
by the college that owned the land.
This college.
1897.
Which means the lease expires
next year.
Worth a bob or two, I should think,
the land the stadium sits on.
I can explain.
Let's hope so.
Because, as the tape goes on,
it sounds like you're conniving
with Fenner to make sure the college
refuses to renew
the Wanderers' lease.
Then, presumably
after a decent interval,
Fenner acquires the land
for redevelopment
and you get a fee for services
rendered.
STAMFIELD:
'The college must never find out.'
FENNER:
'I've got as much to lose as you.'
If the Wanderers got wind
that their chairman had conspired
to steal their home ground out
from under them,
the fans would string me up.
So, don't worry.
No-one will find out.
It's just between you and me.
But unfortunately, it didn't stay
just between you and Fenner, did it?
As she does every afternoon,
Maggie Widdowson came in
to collect the cassette tape
and type up your correspondence.
STAMFIELD: 'Is that altogether
legal, Robert?'
FENNER: 'Well, if it was,
you wouldn't be in line
'for 15% kickback on the deal,
would you?'
She told her fiance
that she was expecting a bequest
from a great aunt.
We spoke to her family.
There was no great aunt.
Nor was there any windfall due.
So, how much did she ask for?
5,000.
Is that what she died for, £5,000?
Against all that you and Fenner
stood to make?
No. I wanted to pay her off.
So, why didn't you?
Swift not training today?
No, the manager's given him
the day off after everything.
We've just come from Lonsdale.
Presumably it was Mr Tressell,
the building contractor
who sponsored your fashion show,
that provided you with the dynamite.
What's this?
Though I don't suppose
he knew it was meant for the bomb
you used to kill Maggie Widdowson.
The country reeling from a spate
of bombings by the Angry Brigade,
yours might have been taken
for the same.
Only, this time,
with fatal consequences.
You can't prove a word of this.
Actually, we can.
The fragments that remain
of the brown paper
that the bomb was wrapped in
show that it had been marked
with a substance containing wax,
clay and colourant.
Dressmaker's chalk.
On the same brown paper,
I'd seen used by your pattern cutter
ahead of your fashion show.
You're gonna need more than that.
We've also got the alarm clock
you used as a timer.
What's left of it, at least.
Forensics have put it back together.
So there's that.
I've never owned an alarm clock.
Really?
No.
Only, it matches one
in a photograph of Mrs Fenner
taken in your bedroom that appeared
in the colour supplement.
You must think I'm a fool.
What sort of a man
would use materials from work
and his wife's own alarm clock
to make a bomb?
A very arrogant man.
The kind who thinks an explosion
would destroy all evidence
that could trace the bomb back
to him.
We also have a confession
from your accomplice, of course.
Now, Professor Stamfield told us
that you'd told him
you'd leave the hush money
that Maggie Widdowson demanded
on her desk.
But instead, you left an explosive.
He's a liar.
You were seen
leaving the Master's office
in the early hours of the morning
by a young man intent
on leaving a Valentine's card
to the woman you murdered.
The gown and mortarboard
was a nice touch.
But no don would be abroad
in full academic rig
at that time of night.
What was it?
You thought she'd ask for more?
That's usually the way
with blackmailers.
Or did you just want to make sure
her mouth was shut?
Robert Fenner, I am arresting you
for the murder of Maggie Widdowson.
BRIGHT: They've admitted it?
Both declining to answer
on the advice of their lawyers, sir.
Much good that will do when they've
already condemned themselves
out of their own mouths
on the recording.
Taken together with
the forensic evidence,
I can't see any jury giving them
the benefit of the doubt.
Well...
..excellent work.
Carry on.
Sir.
Sir, are you sure Ward wasn't
at the Plaza Hotel on Saturday?
We checked.
The call was made on Saturday,
but none of the guests
for This Is Your Life
were booked into the Plaza
till Monday.
No, that's not entirely correct.
Swift said he saw one of them
in town last week.
Detective Sergeant Morse,
Mrs Sellars.
Chief Inspector Thursday.
Thames Valley. Is your husband here?
No, not at the minute.
Perhaps you can help us.
It's not very convenient.
We shan't take long.
Oh, could you leave that, please?
I've a bad headache.
When did you get to Oxford
for the This Is Your Life programme?
Monday.
You flew in, or...?
Yes, the programme sent the...
They took care of all that.
And your husband?
When did he get in to Oxford?
He came with me.
Really?
Only, he was seen here last week.
Is yours a happy marriage,
Mrs Sellars?
I'm as happy as I've always been.
Your husband? Why?
At the party after the show
the other night, he was jealous.
Of you and Jack Swift?
Me and Jack?
God, no.
You wore a ring on a chain
in the message
that you made for him.
I saw that ring this morning
at Mr Swift's house.
Mrs Sellers?
We bunked off school
and went to Portrush.
This beautiful blue day.
Barry's Amusement Park.
Down the arcade there were these
gumball lucky dip machines.
You put your money in and turn
the handle and it's a surprise,
cos you don't know
what you're gonna get.
Out pops this little
plastic egg thing.
We opened it up and there it was,
a heart-shaped ring.
He closed it on my finger
and said he loved me.
I could probably have been
Mrs Swift, too.
We might've had a regular life
together.
Only, Duke Ward put
the finish to it.
How's that?
He told Jack he wouldn't recommend
him for trials over here.
He made it plain.
It was me or football.
So, Jack Swift got fame and fortune,
and you got his best friend.
I don't know if it's just he wanted
something Jack had had
or if he felt something for me,
but...
..George asked and, by that stage,
I didn't much care
one way or another.
Right, so, why was your ring
in Mr Swift's house?
He came to see me after the match.
When he saw what George had done.
Why?
I'll kill him.
Stop, now. Stop.
You were always my girl, Sarah.
I never stopped loving you.
I love you still.
Come on Jack, stop. Erm...
It's half a lifetime ago.
You're in love with a girl
dead and gone these 15 years.
I'm not her any more.
And she's not me.
Here...
I've held on to it long enough.
Some things you have to let be.
You should go.
If Jack Swift wasn't the cause
of your husband's jealousy,
then who was it?
John-Paul Martinelli.
It was him that your husband
was looking for
when he ran into Duke Ward,
not Jack.
He was a good-looking boy.
But it was nothing.
Five minutes in a laundry closet.
Just... fun.
A bit of life.
How did your husband find out?
Oh, he smelt his aftershave on me.
So, what was he doing in Oxford
last week?
I don't know.
But he has a gun in the case.
I saw it when he was packing.
Why would your husband have a gun?
He doesn't tell me the half of it.
Out with the lads after dark
playing soldiers with the boyos.
So, you're saying, what,
he's part of some Loyalist militia?
You think it's just the other side
deals in guns and bombs?
You people,
you get what you see in the papers,
but you've really no idea
how things are.
The Order, the 12th,
the pipes and drums.
Them hating us, us hating them.
Where is he, Mrs Sellars?
Where's your husband?
SHE SIGHS
DOORBELL CHIMES
Are you expecting anyone?
GUNSHOT
Christ!
What have you done? Is he dead?
He'd better be.
SHE SCREAMS
Shut up!
Bridge, be quiet, love. George...
Whatever this is,
she's no part of it.
Have you gone mad?
By order of the Brigade Staff.
The Brigade? The bloody Blacknecks?
Tried in absentia and found guilty
of providing funds...
Georgie...
..providing funds
to the Provisional
Irish Republican Army.
What? Where?
You played in a charity exhibition
five-a-side game last year.
Some of the proceeds
went to enemies of the Crown.
Jesus, George!
I must do 50 charity things a year!
I don't know what it's for
or where the money goes.
Ray organises my time.
I just turn up and play!
That's too bad.
W-W-Wait a minute, please...!
Five-a-side was for, er...
was for youth clubs.
It was for kids who like football,
George.
Same as we did. It was for kids.
Catholic kids.
And some part of the money
you raised found its way
into the Taigs' war chest.
The sentence is death, Jackie.
You tell them I wasn't afraid.
I'll tell them you begged.
Then you'll be a liar
as well as a killer.
The mission's over, Mr Sellars.
You...
Jesus, God!
Do I have to have a massacre here?!
No, nobody dies here.
If you kill Jack, all sympathy
for your cause will be gone.
It would be an own goal.
Drop it!
Down on your knees.
Put the gun on the floor.
On your knees!
A plot to murder one of their own
for which their enemy
would be held culpable.
Hell of a coup
if they'd pulled it off.
Is this what it's come to, Thursday,
gunmen roaming the streets,
political violence?
It's war.
Undeclared, perhaps.
But war all the same.
A one-off, surely?
Swift's crossed these people,
upset them in some particular.
I hope you're right, sir.
But it feels more like the start
of something than the end.
Pray God you're wrong, Thursday.
I pray God you're wrong.
Are you all right?
Would you be?
We grew up together.
Is that it? Are we safe?
Well, at least we know
what the plan is now.
If they were to do it again,
then they'd have to own it.
And I don't think
they have the stomach for that.
I won't live in fear.
Hopefully, you won't have to.
But Special Branch will keep
a watching brief, just to be sure.
How's your man?
Oh, he's in with a chance,
they tell me.
Well...
Er, good luck with the, erm...
the football cup.
HE LAUGHS
Thanks.
Morse...
Thank you.
Can we make it stick, do you think,
for Martinelli?
Well, we've motive and opportunity,
but the evidence
is circumstantial at best.
Taken together with an attempted on
Swift, his girl and the Branch man,
it might carry some weight.
I can understand Martinelli.
That was jealousy.
Something personal.
But this?
Sectarianism.
Maybe we're as much what we hate
as what we love.
In the end, we all pick a team.
Or a team picks you.
Not if you're no good at sports.
I was always the last to be chosen.
The one neither side
wanted in the team.
I chose you.
Subtitles by accessibility@itv.com